>> Melkey: Next thing I kinda wanna
show is just some quality of life
features in the funk main
with another package.
So the standard library and
go is super rich.
It's like, it's fat.
That's the best way I could describe it.
There's so
many different packages that, again,
you don't need any external package,
like a purist, a code purist will
write everything themselves,
which is very awesome, I would say.
But because of that it makes a challenge
of someone trying to teach code hard.
I can't teach everything
from the standard library,
we'll be here until the next snowstorm
alert, but what I do want to do is
introduce some packages that may catch
your eye, catching interest, right?
And I think one that is worth
mentioning is the flag package.
Okay, so the flag package in go
basically allows us to parse flags to be
passed in when calling our function.
This could be our binary executable
file if you create one or
just using go run main.go.
So here we can declare our
variable as port, can be int.
We don't need to assign
a value right here.
But what we can do is use our new
flag package and grab int var, okay?
And here we're gonna pass it the address
of the port because we want to parse
the value we are getting from
the command into our port integer here,
our variable port, which is an integer.
We're gonna say port, which is the name
of the flag that we will add, okay?
And then we'll give it
a default value 8080.
Meaning, if someone calls our function and
don't pass port,
we will default this to 8080, and
we'll just give it a description.
Go backend server port like so,
and then don't forget,
you have to do flag.parse, okay?
This actually calls the parse function,
which does all the heavy lifting for
us, okay?
And then here in address, we can actually
fully replace this with format.sprintf.
Now, sprintf, very similar to printf, but
the s in front of it
returns a variable for us.
So printf, just quickly, just right away,
prints to the standard output.
This printf returns a variable for
us, okay?
And in here, When you're calling ("%d",
port), and
we'll put in port variable like so.
So now when we run we should
be able to go back, nuke this,
run it again, and you know what?
I'm gonna add something,
so here I'm wanna do,
I wanna move up blogger, put it down here,
and I'm gonna say printf,
I'm gonna say we are running
on port modulo d.
>> Melkey: We can put our
port variable like so.
And here, if you run this, we should
see we are running on port 8080 but
if here, if we do go, run,
main.go, port 8081, oops.
Go, run, main.go, port 8081,
you should see we are now
running on port 8081, right?
Key difference here versus here,
default value,
it's gonna go back to whatever
the default we set up here.
Otherwise you can specify the port.
So that's just some of the abilities
that the flag package provides us.
So we can use it for
distinguishing how we're gonna change
the behavior app depending on
what the user passes to us.
>> Speaker 2: Are there environment
variable techniques you can use as well?
>> Melkey: Yeah, there is definitely lots
of environmental variable techniques
that we can use.
There's like the OS packaging go,
the built in here has
something that you can use.
I think it's got OS Getenv like here.
So get into, choose a value of
the environment variable named by the key.
So you can use something like this,
but there's actually a package that
makes retrieving get environment
variables from a .env much easier.
So again,
it's a function that you'd bring in, or
package you'd bring in makes
environment variables super easy.
And one thing you can do if you want is,
you can parse a value from
the command line interface.
If it's not there, you can default to the
OS.Getenv value, or you can replace it.
So there's a few things you can do there.